Using kubectl to Create a Deployment | Kubernetes
Using kubectl to Create a DeploymentObjectivesLearn about application Deployments.Deploy your first app on Kubernetes with kubectl.Before you beginThe shell commands in this tutorial use POSIX shell syntax, which is supported by
the default shells on most Linux and macOS systems (for example, bash, zsh, or sh).
Windows users must use a POSIX-compatible shell such as
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
or Git Bash to run the commands as written.
Commands that use export, $(), and similar constructs are not compatible
with PowerShell or the Windows Command Prompt.Kubernetes DeploymentsA Deployment is responsible for creating and updating instances of your application.Note:This tutorial uses a container that requires the AMD64 architecture. If you are using
minikube on a computer with a different CPU architecture, you could try using minikube with
a driver that can emulate AMD64. For example, the Docker Desktop driver can do this.Once you have a running Kubernetes cluster,
you can deploy your containerized applications on top of it. To do so, you create a
Kubernetes Deployment. The Deployment instructs Kubernetes how to create and
update instances of your application. Once you've created a Deployment, the Kubernetes
control plane schedules the application instances included in that Deployment to run
on individual Nodes in the cluster.Once the application instances are created, a Kubernetes Deployment controller continuously
monitors those instances. If the Node hosting an instance goes down or is deleted,
the Deployment controller replaces the instance with an instance on another Node
in the cluster. This provides a self-healing mechanism to address machine failure
or maintenance.In a pre-orchestration world, installation scripts would often be used to start
applications, but they did not allow recovery from machine failure. By both creating
your application instances and keeping them running across Nodes, Kubernetes Deployments
provide a fundamentally different approach to application management.Deploying your first app on KubernetesApplications need to be packaged into one of the supported container formats in
order to be deployed on Kubernetes.You can create and manage a Deployment by using the Kubernetes command line interface,
kubectl. kubectl uses the Kubernetes API to interact
with the cluster. In this module, you'll learn the most common kubectl commands
needed to create Deployments that run your applications on a Kubernetes cluster.When you create a Deployment, you'll need to specify the container image for your
application and the number of replicas that you want to run. You can change that
information later by updating your Deployment; Module 5
and Module 6 of the bootcamp
discuss how you can scale and update your Deployments.For your first Deployment, you'll use a hello-node application packaged in a Docker
container that uses NGINX to echo back all the requests. (If you didn't already try
creating a hello-node application and deploying it using a container, you can do
that first by following the instructions from the Hello Minikube tutorial.)You will need to have installed kubectl as well. If you need to install it, visit
install tools.Now that you know what Deployments are, let's deploy our first app!kubectl basicsThe common format of a kubectl command is: kubectl action resource.This performs the specified action (like create, describe or delete) on the
specified resource (like node or deployment. You can use --help after the
subcommand to get additional info about possible parameters (for example: kubectl get nodes --help).Check that kubectl is configured to talk to your cluster, by running the kubectl version command.Check that kubectl is installed and that you can see both the client and the server versions.To view the nodes in the cluster, run the kubectl get nodes command.You see the available nodes. Later, Kubernetes will choose where to deploy our
application based on Node available resources.Deploy an appLet’s deploy our first app on Kubernetes with the kubectl create deployment command.
We need to provide the deployment name and app image location (include the full
repository url for images hosted outside Docker Hub).kubectl create deployment kubernetes-bootcamp --image=gcr.io/google-samples/kubernetes-bootcamp:v1
Great! You just deployed your first application by creating a deployment. This performed a few things for you:searched for a suitable node where an instance of the application could be run (we have only 1 available node)scheduled the application to run on that Nodeconfigured the cluster to reschedule the instance on a new Node when neededTo list your deployments use the kubectl get deployments command:kubectl get deployments
We see that there is 1 deployment running a single instance of your app. The instance
is running inside a container on your node.View the appPods that are running inside Kubernetes are running
on a private, isolated network. By default they are visible from other pods and services
within the same Kubernetes cluster, but not outside that network. When we use kubectl,
we're interacting through an API endpoint to communicate with our application.We will cover other options on how to expose your application outside the Kubernetes
cluster later, in Module 4.
Also as a basic tutorial, we're not explaining what Pods are in any
detail here, it will be covered in later topics.The kubectl proxy command can create a proxy that will forward communications
into the cluster-wide, private network. The proxy can be terminated by pressing
control-C and won't show any output while it's running.You need to open a second terminal window to run the proxy.kubectl proxy
We now have a connection between our host (the terminal) and the Kubernetes cluster.
The proxy enables direct access to the API from these terminals.You can see all those APIs hosted through the proxy endpoint. For example, we can
query the version directly through the API using the curl command:curl http://localhost:8001/version
Note:If port 8001 is not accessible, ensure that the kubectl proxy that you started
above is running in the second terminal.The API server will automatically create an endpoint for each pod, based on the
pod name, that is also accessible through the proxy.First we need to get the Pod name, and we'll store it in the environment variable POD_NAME.export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods -o go-template --template '{{range .items}}{{.metadata.name}}{{"\n"}}{{end}}')
echo Name of the Pod: $POD_NAME
You can access the Pod through the proxied API, by running:curl http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/$POD_NAME:8080/proxy/
In order for the new Deployment to be accessible without using the proxy, a Service
is required which will be explained in Module 4.What's nextTutorial Viewing Pods and Nodes.Learn more about Deployments.FeedbackWas this page helpful?Yes
NoThanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow.
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement.Last modified March 12, 2026 at 3:33 PM PST: Clarify POSIX shell wording in prerequisites (5d98744874)